
## Constitution

This is an unofficial copy of the constitution for the Society of Software
Developers. The official, binding version of the constitution is available on
[GatorConnect](https://orgs.studentinvolvement.ufl.edu/Organization/society-of-software-developers).

Last modified on August 17, 2021.

***

### Article I. Name of Organization

The name of the organization is the Society of Software Developers. The
organization may use the acronym SSD in official correspondence.

***

### Article II. Statement of Purpose

The purpose of the Society of Software Developers is to create an environment
where students can learn and apply the elements of software design to real-world
applications. Members of the organization will learn topics such as design by
contract, error handling, software design patterns, and how to apply them to
their own projects. The concepts taught and used will help students determine
how to approach complicated problems and better prepare them for team projects,
internships, and careers in software development.

***

### Article III. Compliance Statement

Upon approval by the Department of Student Activities and Involvement, the
Society of Software Developers shall be a registered student organization at the
University of Florida. The Society of Software Developers shall comply with all
local, state and federal laws, as well as all University of Florida regulations,
policies, and procedures. Such compliance includes but is not limited to the
University’s regulations related to Non-Discrimination, Sexual Harassment
(including sexual misconduct, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking),
Hazing, Commercial Activity, and Student Leader Eligibility.

***

### Article IV. University Regulations

#### Section A. Non-Discrimination

The Society of Software Developers agrees that it will not discriminate based on
race, creed, color, religion, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity and expression, marital status, national origin, political opinions or
affiliations, genetic information and veteran status as protected under the
Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act.

#### Section B. Sexual Harassment

The Society of Software Developers agrees that it will not engage in any
activity that is unwelcome conduct of sexual nature that creates a hostile
environment. Behaviors that could create a hostile environment include sexual
harassment (which could include inappropriate sexual comments), sexual
misconduct, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking.

#### Section C. Hazing

The Society of Software Developers agrees that it will not initiate, support, or
encourage any events or situations that recklessly, by design, or intentionally
endanger the mental or physical health or safety of a student for any purpose
including but not limited to initiation or admission into or affiliation with
any student group or organization.

#### Section D. Responsibility to Report

If this organization becomes aware of any such conduct described in this
article, the Society of Software Developers will report it immediately to
Student Activities and Involvement, the Director of Student Conduct and Conflict
Resolution, or the University’s Title IX Coordinator.

***

### Article V. Membership

Membership in this organization is open to all enrolled students at the
University of Florida.  Non-enrolled students, spouses, faculty, and staff may
be associate members; however, they may not vote or hold office.  All members
and associate members are free to leave and disassociate without fear of
retribution, retaliation, or harassment.

***

### Article VI. Offices

#### Section A. Elected Officers

 1. The President shall preside at all meetings of the organization and shall
    coordinate the work of the officers and committees.
 2. The Vice-President shall serve as an aide to the President and shall perform
    the duties of the President in her/his absence or inability to serve.
 3. The Logistics Officer (Treasurer) is responsible for handling backend
    planning, administration, and finance. As the Treasurer, they shall keep an
    accurate record of receipts and expenditures and pay out local funds in
    accordance with the approved budget as authorized by the organization.
 4. The Program Officer is responsible for the content and execution of
    organization activities such as meetings, workshops, and events.
 5. The Involvement Officer is responsible for maintaining organization projects, overseeing member-sponsored projects and broader internal communications. They ensure members are staying active and engaged by gauging feedback during and after meetings.
 6. The Outreach Officer is responsible for managing communication,
    presence, outreach, social media, and interactions with external
    organizations.

#### Section B. Appointed Officers

 1. A Committee Chair is appointed for each committee of the organization and is
    responsible for managing their committee and coordinating with the
    supervising officer. This position is appointed by the officer responsible
    for supervising the committee.
 2. A Project Leader is appointed for each project sponsored by the organization
    and is responsible for managing the project and ensuring it meets
    organization requirements. This position is appointed by the Development
    Officer to the project proposer.

#### Section C. Term of Office

Officers shall server for a term of one year. An interim officer for the summer
semester may be selected from an incoming/outgoing officer or by general
election.

#### Section D. Removal from Office

To remove an officer from their position, a written request from three members
of the organization must submitted to an elected officer. The officer in
question shall be notified of the request in writing and asked to be present at
the next meeting to respond to the request. A two-thirds vote of at least 10
members is required to remove them from their position. If the vacated position
is elected, an election must be held within the next month and an interim
officer may be appointed.

***

### Article VII. Elections

#### Section A. Dates

Elections for will occur during the second to last meeting of the Spring
semester (April/May). Officer positions for the summer semester will be selected
from the outgoing spring and incoming fall officers, holding an election where
necessary.

#### Section B. Eligibility

A candidate must be a member of the organization prior to the election and shall
submit a written statement of interest for the positions they’re interested in
subject to approval.

#### Section C. Process

Elections are held using a Single Transferable Vote among all registered
members. The results of each election should be determined before moving onto
the next to allow candidates to run for subsequent positions. Candidates are
offered 1-3-minute speech depending on available time. In the event of a tie, a
runoff election is held for a tiebreaker vote among the Board of Directors.

***

### Article VIII. Student Organization Advisor

The student organization advisor shall serve as a resource person and provide
advisory support for the officers and members of the organization. The student
organization advisor should attend executive meetings; however, the student
organization advisor may not vote in any organization matters.  The student
organization advisor shall be nominated by the officers and confirmed by a
majority vote of the members. The student organization advisor will serve a term
of one academic year. If the student organization advisor is unable to continue
in their position, officers may nominate a replacement at any time, to be
confirmed by a majority vote of the members.

***

### Article IX. Finances

Dues are not collected from members; however community sponsorships, Student
Government funding, and fundraisers such as workshops and events may be used to
provide for expenses such as shirts, travel, events, and other operational
expenses.

***

### Article X. Dissolution of Organization

In the event this organization dissolves, any remaining assets after outstanding
debts and claims have been paid shall be donated to the Department of Student
Activities and Involvement at the University of Florida.

***

### Article XI. Board of Directors

The Board of Directors consists of all officers, elected or appointed. They
should meet once every month to discuss organization business and reflect on
previous events. Meetings are open to all members, however only members of the
Board may vote.

***

### Article XII. Standard Operating Procedures

In addition to this constitution, a second titled Standard Operating Procedures
(SOP) should define day-to-day operations including but not limited to meeting
dates, time, agendas, and locations. This document is not binding and serves as
guidance for officers and as written documentation of schedules for reference.
The Standard Operating Procedures may be updated by a majority vote of the Board
of Directors and should be reconfirmed at the first meeting of new officers after
an election.

***

### Article XIII. Amendments to Constitution

Amendments to this constitution may be proposed at any Board of Directors
meeting. If the proposal is passed by the Board of Director, a two weeks’ notice
must be given prior to a public vote. The amendment must receive a two-thirds
vote of the members in attendance and is subject to final approval by the
Department of Student Activities and Involvement.

***
